All right, so the first thing that we're
gonna do is just gonna get rid of this
placeholder markup.
You don't need that anymore.
Now looking at a blank page.
And we wanna create a game component,
which is where the bulk of
our logic is going to live.
So in the file explorer, I'm gonna
create a component alongside here.
Just call it Game.svelte,
And then inside the page.svelte component,
I'm gonna start,
typing the word game and
it's gonna auto import that for me.
Just hit Enter.
You can see that it has added
the input declaration and everything.
And so now we can start
building the game insight,
our game.svelte component.
Now, there's a lot of ways that you can
go about building something like this.
The way that I tend to like to do things
is build out a very rough user interface
so that I have a sense of what
things are gonna look like and
then we can start adding the game logic
once we have the basic UI in place.
And then finally, we'll add some polish.
So I'm gonna create div class = game.
And inside there, let me bring up
the game so that we can see it.
We have a grid in
the center of the screen,
and we have two blocks either side.
So we have a block of content at
the bottom where with the pairs that we've
found go, we have a block of content at
the top where the countdown timer goes.
And then the big chunk in
the middle is the game grid.
So I'm gonna begin by roughing that out.
We'll call the bits at
the top of the bottom.
Class =info.
Duplicate that, and then in the middle,
we're gonna have our grid container.
And then in the same component,
we'll have some styles that control
the placement of all of these elements.
So to get that layout where
everything is centered and
aligned it's very convenient
to use a flex layout.
You can use display flex.
And we're gonna give it
a flex-direction of column,
which means that the first element will be
at the top followed by the container below
it as opposed to on the right-hand side,
followed by the final info block.
We'll give it a justify
content of center and
align items of center.
Something that I'll often do
when I'm roughing out a UI is
I'll give the elements that I'm working
with an ugly background color so
that I can see what space
they're taking up on the screen.
So for the info elements, we're gonna
give it a I'd say a width of 80vmin.
If you haven't seen vmin before,
it is the minimum of either Vw,
which is the width of the screen
divided by 100, or Vh,
which is the height of
the screen divided by 100.
And it's what allows us to have a user
interface that will scale down and
always fit inside the screen,
whether it's on a desktop in
a landscape aspect ratio, or
if someone's using it on their phone.
Give it height of say 10 vmin like so, and
then a background of say purple.
And then, the grid container that's
gonna have again, a width of 80 vmin.
And the same height because it's a square.
And we'll give that a background of,
let's say, teal.
Okay, so far so good, but
it's not centered vertically.
And that's because we haven't added
the right height to the game element so
we'll stick a 100% on there.
Still not working and
that's because we need to have
the 100% applied to
the elements that contain this.
So at this point I'm gonna pause and come
out of spell and add a global style sheet.
Inside my source directory,
I'm gonna add styles.css.
And you could do all these with component
files using the cloud modifier or
whatever.
But find that in just about every project
I would typically have a bunch of styles
related to things like typography and
colors, CSS, custom properties,
things like that,
that are shared by everything on the page.
And so it's convenient to have
a place to put all of that stuff.
So often have a source/styles.CSS or
something like that.
In here, I'm gonna add the piece of
CSS that has saved me the most time.
And all the time that I've been writing
CSS, which is every element by default,
has a position of relative and
a box-sizing of border-box.
And then the thing that we came here
to do is to add on the html element and
on the body, we want a height of 100%.
And we also wanna get rid of the margin,
because otherwise that's gonna
mess with our height measurements.
Last thing we need to do of course
is import these styles into our app,
otherwise it'll have no effect.
So inside page.svelte, I'm gonna do,
import ../styles.CSS.
Obviously, you can't normally do this
in a JavaScript module we are using
a Vite feature here.
The fact that you can import CSS is
something that Vite brings to the table.
During development, it will extract
all of the imported CSS, minify it,
optimize it, and then spit it out into
a separate bundle of CSS that can
be cached immutably, so that it's
really good for performance and so on.
And just authoring-wise, it's very simple
to be able to add an import like this.
So even though it's kinda non-standard,
very cool.
All right, now our global CSS is
being applied to the page, and
we can see that the grid is now centered,
nice.